# martian-modeling

This is a 22th century model of a hypothetical Martian Civilization written by me and my MCM team. 

This model was created for the 2016-17 Mathematical Contest in Modeling (MCM) or more specifically Problem F of the Interdisplinary Contest in Modeling (ICM).
The original problem statement is included in this GitHub.
In reponse to our model, our solution was ranked Outstanding (highest possible rank) and recieved the Vilfredo Pareto Award which is given to exactly one team that attempts Problem F.
According to the official description,

"Vilfredo Pareto was an Italian scholar, modeler and problem solver, who at various times was an engineer, sociologist, economist, political scientist, mathematician, and philosopher. He lived and worked in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The Pareto Award honors the work and legacy of this famous social science problem solver. In particular for this award, the head judge seeks to highlight a paper that best models the more dynamic and challenging contextual human elements that make simplification or refinement of policy models so difficult."

As the description implies, this model is very dynamic and very complex. Here is a small description of our model: 

"We developed an agent-based model that simulates a population of 10,000 agents on Mars using real world data given by the US Census' data on occupational income. In our model, each agent, or Martian citizen, progresses through their lifecycle by attending college, searching for jobs, and earning income. The government then protects these individual agents from economic harm using programs such as welfare and minimum wage. To maximize both social welfare and productivity, we chose to monitor the state of the economy and create metrics that would measure the effect of agent-based factors on the community's well-being. We measured multiple parameters of the community generated by these agents, which allowed us to evaluate the condition of the economy. From these parameters, we generated three metrics: the Income Metric I, the Education Metric E, and the Equality Metric Q. The income metric favors higher per capita income values on Mars and punishes a wage gap between the rich and the poor that is either too large or too small. The education metric measures the amount of unemployment as an economical factor and the student-to-faculty ratio as a social welfare factor so as to evaluate education through both the lens of productivity and well-being. Finally, the Equality Metric compares the proportion of women in occupations on Mars to their proportion in jobs on Earth to illustrate the dynamic social equality present in Population Zero. Additionally, our model includes several economic indicators and properties like the inflation rate, a progressive tax system, total investment, and government debt to add further to the dynamic equilibrium of the economy."

As complex as this is, this is only the tip of the iceberg. If you read the paper, it dwells far more on how everything was accomplished, additional economic indicators, and the definitions of our metrics. I think I waived away rights to my paper so I can't include that in this GitHub, but there is a strong chance it will be published soon by COMAP (the organization that runs MCM/ICM), so maybe you will be able to find it there.
